packages/preferences-persistence/README.md, before:

# Preferences persistence

Persistence utilities for `wordpress/preferences`.

Includes a persistence layer that saves data to WordPress user meta via the REST API. If for any reason data cannot be saved to the database, this persistence layer also uses local storage as a fallback.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/preferences-persistence --save
```

_This package assumes that your code will run in an **ES2015+** environment. If you're using an environment that has limited or no support for such language features and APIs, you should include [the polyfill shipped in `@wordpress/babel-preset-default`](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/HEAD/packages/babel-preset-default#polyfill) in your code._

## Usage

Call the `create` function to create a persistence layer.

```js
const persistenceLayer = create();
```

Next, configure the preferences package to use this persistence layer:

```js
wp.data( 'core/preferences' ).setPersistenceLayer( persistenceLayer );
```

## Reference

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated Docs|src/index.js) -->

### create

Creates a persistence layer that stores data in WordPress user meta via the REST API.

_Parameters_

-   _options_ `Object`:
-   _options.preloadedData_ `?Object`: Any persisted preferences data that should be preloaded. When set, the persistence layer will avoid fetching data from the REST API.
-   _options.localStorageRestoreKey_ `?string`: The key to use for restoring the localStorage backup, used when the persistence layer calls `localStorage.getItem` or `localStorage.setItem`.
-   _options.requestDebounceMS_ `?number`: Debounce requests to the API so that they only occur at minimum every `requestDebounceMS` milliseconds, and don't swamp the server. Defaults to 2500ms.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: A persistence layer for WordPress user meta.

<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated Docs|src/index.js) -->

## Contributing to this package

This is an individual package that's part of the Gutenberg project. The project is organized as a monorepo. It's made up of multiple self-contained software packages, each with a specific purpose. The packages in this monorepo are published to [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and used by [WordPress](https://make.wordpress.org/core/) as well as other software projects.

To find out more about contributing to this package or Gutenberg as a whole, please read the project's main [contributor guide](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/HEAD/CONTRIBUTING.md).

<br /><br /><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>

Commit message:

Migrate block editor insert usage to preferences store
Update tests

Make updateInsertUsage a proper action that can be unit tested

Fix reusable block tests

Update test

Try fixing private actions with new store registration

Update tests

Add special handling for the insertUsage migration as it was performed later than others

Remove unused function

Add mark next change as expensive action to preferences store

Update debounce function to handle a longer debounce for expensive changes

Mark the insertUsage preference change as expensive

Make expensive calls use a trailing edge debounce

Fix duplicate keys in tests

Improve trailing edge test

Fix tests, and ensure options object is optional

Make updateInsertUsage a private API

Make markNextChangeAsExpensive a private API

Update docs

Update package-lock

Opt-in preferences as a core module using private apis

Do not unlock what is already unlocked

Remove time property from INSERT_BLOCKS and REPLACE_BLOCKS action objects

Rename `match` to `variation`

Rename file to create-async-debouncer

Add an extra param for defining the debounce of expensive requests

Add a default value of `false` for the `isExpensive` option

Make `__unstableGetInsertUsage` a private selector called `getInsertUsage`. Remove `__unstableGetInsertUsageForBlock`

Only run the migration when needed

Keep the `insertUsage` data at a maximum of 100 records

Fix linting issues

Update docs

packages/preferences-persistence/README.md, after:

# Preferences persistence

Persistence utilities for `wordpress/preferences`.

Includes a persistence layer that saves data to WordPress user meta via the REST API. If for any reason data cannot be saved to the database, this persistence layer also uses local storage as a fallback.

## Installation

Install the module

```bash
npm install @wordpress/preferences-persistence --save
```

_This package assumes that your code will run in an **ES2015+** environment. If you're using an environment that has limited or no support for such language features and APIs, you should include [the polyfill shipped in `@wordpress/babel-preset-default`](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/HEAD/packages/babel-preset-default#polyfill) in your code._

## Usage

Call the `create` function to create a persistence layer.

```js
const persistenceLayer = create();
```

Next, configure the preferences package to use this persistence layer:

```js
wp.data( 'core/preferences' ).setPersistenceLayer( persistenceLayer );
```

## Reference

<!-- START TOKEN(Autogenerated Docs|src/index.js) -->

### create

Creates a persistence layer that stores data in WordPress user meta via the REST API.

_Parameters_

-   _options_ `Object`:
-   _options.preloadedData_ `?Object`: Any persisted preferences data that should be preloaded. When set, the persistence layer will avoid fetching data from the REST API.
-   _options.localStorageRestoreKey_ `?string`: The key to use for restoring the localStorage backup, used when the persistence layer calls `localStorage.getItem` or `localStorage.setItem`.
-   _options.requestDebounceMS_ `?number`: Debounce requests to the API so that they only occur at minimum every `requestDebounceMS` milliseconds, and don't swamp the server. Defaults to 2500ms.
-   _options.expensiveRequestDebounceMS_ `?number`: A longer debounce that can be defined for updates that have `isExpensive=true` defined. defaults to 60000ms.

_Returns_

-   `Object`: A persistence layer for WordPress user meta.

<!-- END TOKEN(Autogenerated Docs|src/index.js) -->

## Contributing to this package

This is an individual package that's part of the Gutenberg project. The project is organized as a monorepo. It's made up of multiple self-contained software packages, each with a specific purpose. The packages in this monorepo are published to [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) and used by [WordPress](https://make.wordpress.org/core/) as well as other software projects.

To find out more about contributing to this package or Gutenberg as a whole, please read the project's main [contributor guide](https://github.com/WordPress/gutenberg/tree/HEAD/CONTRIBUTING.md).

<br /><br /><p align="center"><img src="https://s.w.org/style/images/codeispoetry.png?1" alt="Code is Poetry." /></p>
